"He said science was going to discover the basic secret of life someday," the bartender put in. He scratched his head and frowned. "Didn't I read in the paper the other day where they'd finally found out what it was?" "I missed that," I murmured. "I saw that," said Sandra. "About two days ago." "That's right," said the bartender. "What is the secret of life?" I asked. "I forget," said Sandra. "Protein," the bartender declared. "They found out something about protein." "Yeah," said Sandra, "that's it." — Kurt Vonnegut, Cat's Cradle

"This answer was: one must live by satisfying immediate needs, that is, by seeking oblivion." — Tolstoy, Anna Karenina

"there are people who, on the contrary, take pains to find in this victorious rival the qualities with which he defeated them, and who, with an aching heart, look only for good things about him. Levin belonged to the latter category." — Tolstoy, Anna Karenina

"The main task of philosophy down the ages has been precisely to find that essential link which exists between personal and public interest." — Tolstoy, Anna Karenina

"there are many millions in their sects and churches who feel the order, 'Do thou,' and throw their weight into obedience. And there are millions more who feel predestination in 'Thou shalt.' Nothing they may do can interfere with what will be. But 'Thou mayest'! Why, that makes a man great, that gives him stature with the gods, for in his weakness and his filth and his murder of his brother he has still the great choice. He can choose his course and fight it through and win." — Steinbeck, East of Eden

"Maybe everyone is too rich. I have noticed that there is no dissatisfaction like that of the rich. Feed a man, clothe him, put him in a good house, and he will die of despair." — Steinbeck, East of Eden

"In uncertainty I am certain that underneath their topmost layers of frailty men want to be good and want to be loved. Indeed, most of their vices are attempted short cuts to love." — Steinbeck, East of Eden

"He said there couldn't be any more universal philosophers. The weight of knowledge is too great for one mind to absorb. He saw a time when one man would know only one little fragment, but he would know it well." — Steinbeck, East of Eden

"Maybe a specialist is only a coward, afraid to look out of his little cage. And think what any specialist misses—the whole world over his fence." — Steinbeck, East of Eden

"this goodly frame, the earth, seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted with golden fire,--why, it appears no other thing to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours." — Shakespeare, Hamlet

"I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw." — Shakespeare, Hamlet

"Honest, industrious, peaceful citizens were classed as bloodsuckers, if they asked to be paid a living wage. And they saw that praise was reserved henceforth for those who devised means of getting paid enormously for committing crimes against which no laws had been passed." — Vonnegut, God Bless You Mr. Rosewater

"We few, we happy few, we band of brothers—joined in the serious business of keeping our food, shelter, clothing and loved ones from combining with oxygen." — Vonnegut, God Bless You Mr. Rosewater

"Though he was an idler who might as well spend his time in the mountains as anywhere, he looked upon mountain climbing as almost a model of wasted effort. For that very reason it pulled at him with the attraction of the unreal." — Kawabata, Snow Country

"all this so want should be The cause of human ingenuity, And ingenuity the cause of arts" — Virgil, The Georgics

"Even when we can't agree on much, there's still the man returning from his late shift at the local bar, who takes a long look at the bird's nest in the maple, pats the trunk like a friend's forearm, mumbles something about staying safe" — Ada Limon, The Carrying

"What if we stood up with our synapses and flesh and said, No. No, to the rising tides. Stood for the many mute mouths of the sea, of the land? What would happen if we used our bodies to bargain for the safety of others, for earth, if we declared a clean night, if we stopped being terrified, if we launched our demands into the sky, made ourselves so" — Ada Limon, The Carrying

"What a man sees depends both upon what he looks at and also upon what his previous visual-conceptual experience has taught him to see. In the absence of such training there can only be, in William James's phrase, 'a bloomin' buzzin' confusion.'" — Thomas Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions

"it is through struggle and sorrow that people are able to participate in one another—the heartlessness of the healthy, well-fed, and unsorrowful person has in it an infinite smugness." — Steinbeck, The Log from the Sea of Cortez

"You sea! I resign myself to you also—I guess what you mean, / I behold from the beach your crooked inviting fingers, / I believe you refuse to go back without feeling of me, / We must have a turn together, I undress, hurry me out of sight of the land, / Cushion me soft, rock me in billowy drowse, / Dash me with amorous wet, I can repay you." — Walt Whitman, Song of Myself

"When I heard the learn'd astronomer, / When the proofs, the figures, were ranged in columns before me, / When I was shown the charts and diagrams, to add, divide, and measure them, / When I sitting heard the astronomer where he lectured with much applause in the lecture-room, / How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick, / Till rising and gliding out I wander'd off by myself, / In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time, / Look'd up in perfect silence at the stars." — Walt Whitman, When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer

"I loafe and invite my soul, / I lean and loafe at my ease observing a spear of summer grass." — Walt Whitman, Song of Myself

"Do I contradict myself? / Very well then I contradict myself, / (I am large, I contain multitudes.)" — Walt Whitman, Song of Myself

"I believe a leaf of grass is no less than the journey-work of the stars," — Walt Whitman, Song of Myself

"Now I see the secret of the making of the best persons, / It is to grow in the open air and to eat and sleep with the earth." — Walt Whitman, Song of the Open Road

"Unscrew the locks from the doors! / Unscrew the doors themselves from their jambs! / Whoever degrades another degrades me, / And whatever is done or said returns at last to me. / Through me the afflatus surging and surging, through me the current and index. / I speak the pass-word primeval, I give the sign of democracy, / By God! I will accept nothing which all cannot have their counterpart of on the same terms." — Walt Whitman, Song of Myself
